hey guys welcome back to the channel so
if you know about the conjuring series
you've probably heard of the nun
in the movie father burke and sister
irene must investigate a mysterious
death in a cloister
while trying to figure out what really
happened they see that there's an evil
spirit who's trying to kill them
in this video we'll look at how you can
beat the demonic nun and get away alive
the movie starts at a romanian convent
called the abbey of saint carter
in 1952. here we see two nuns going down
a dark basement towards the door
saying god ends here the older one goes
inside and seconds later we see her
bloody hand reaching out
she crawls out towards the younger one
telling her that she knows what she must
do
following her instructions she runs off
into another room and goes towards an
open window
after asking god for forgiveness she
puts a noose around her neck and looks
back one more time
we see that the door is now open and a
dark figure slowly approaches
seeing that she has little time left she
jumps off the building
hanging yourself here both of the nuns
can probably be
saved and the demon could have already
been killed but to know how to do that
we need to take a few seconds to explain
what's going on here
so in the church there's a certain space
in the basement where there's a crack in
the floor
the nun came out at this opening which
is behind the door
now in order to get rid of the demon
what they must do is close this crack by
pouring in the blood of christ
which is held in this relic and is
hidden somewhere in the convent
but as it's explained later on the crack
in the basement was opened because of
bombings on the building during world
war ii which ended in 1945
but now it's 1952. this means that the
abbey has been dealing with the creepy
nun for some time
it's also mentioned that they were aware
of the demon roaming the halls every
night
but no one ever asked for help or
reported any of the strange incidents
if they would have done that it could
easily lead to other church officials
taking action
and luckily what they must do to get rid
of the demon is pretty straight forward
if you have a couple more people
but getting back to the hanging of the
younger nun that could have been avoided
too
we see that she's running away from
valik from this door and she hangs
herself
up here what the movie doesn't show you
though is that these two locations are
kind of far apart
one is down in the basement and the
other is the highest room which is
across the convent
so she ran all this way and valley
couldn't catch up
so she could have used the time it took
to go to this room to instead run away
from the convent
we see that the paranormal activity is
concentrated around the abbey and it
gets
less and less the further you go out and
there's actually an exit
pretty close to the basement simply
running away is something that
both of them could have done earlier
that day because there is no reason why
they have to be in the basement to
confront the demon
right now i also don't know why they
waited until the middle of the night to
do this
they can also go down here tomorrow
valley didn't even attack them until
they walked into his room
now you might think that the demon would
just kill them if they try to run away
however he didn't kill the younger nun
in the entire time that she was rushing
to the other room
and later we'll see that people are
going in and out of the abbey numerous
times without a problem
even though they met the demon that's
kind of a running theme in the movie
valig usually shows up to spook people
but then he just walks away and leaves
them alone this leads me to believe that
the two nuns could have left
earlier that day keep in mind they knew
about the demon before and decided to
stay
night after night anyways after that we
see frenchie a villager living nearby
making a delivery to the convent
theory sees the dead nun this news goes
all the way up to the vatican where a
couple of church officials decide to
recruit the help of father burke
they want him to investigate what's been
going on here they also tell him that
he'll get the help of sister irene who
is a postulant
which is someone who isn't quite a nun
yet she'll tag along because she
apparently knows the area very well
father burke then begins his journey and
starts with meeting sister irene
but she reveals that she's never been
there and will be just as lost as him
so already she doesn't have to come
along she was only chosen because she
can
maybe guide burke but that's not the
case this is probably the easiest way
for her to avoid risking her life in the
convent
she can not go and if they make the
right decisions later on
it doesn't make that much of a
difference if she's there
but burr convinces her to still come
with him they then go to romania into
the village to
frenchie's house he takes them to the
convent with his horse
but when they arrive the hanging body is
no longer there
frenchie tells him that he's hidden it
in the ice room which is where he can go
inside to make deliveries without going
through the main gate
after looking at the corpse the group
makes their way into the convent
and goes into the first room there they
meet the irreverent mother
burke asks her about the death of the
nun and what's been going on here
but she's totally lost it seems like she
didn't even know that someone died
honestly i don't think she's gone off
this chair in the last 40 years
so she's being very cryptic and says
that the two should stay the night and
tomorrow they will get the answers they
seek
as it gets late sister irene and burke
go to where they'll sleep and frenchie
prepares to head home
on his way back he goes through the
woods around the castle
theory sees a nun walking around and
frenchie decides to follow her
but after turning a corner she
disappears yet he still wants to stop
her
shortly after she attacks him looking
like a demonic zombie
luckily he's able to push her aside and
he walks away
here there were a couple of mistakes
made that could have avoided the
situation
first of all when frenchie first sees
the nun there is no reason to follow her
it's not like she's in the way or he
doesn't know how to get home
he even changes his direction to go
towards her i mean you'd probably just
think it's someone working who wants to
be left alone
especially when she's completely
ignoring him walking the opposite way
later on when he's closer and she
disappears in a thin air that should
probably be the biggest sign that he
should walk away and here's why
all the villagers including frenchie
already believe that the convent is
haunted when father
burke explains how he's been sent here
to find out if the place is evil
frenchie says i can give you my opinion
on that now father
clearly insinuating that he already
thinks that something's wrong here
so why would he follow this creepy dark
figure in the middle of the night
it would be much easier to keep walking
home later on we see irene and burke
going to sleep but shortly after he's
woken up by a radio
turning on and off by itself then he
hears some noises and sees a little kid
walking around
he follows him outside and sees that the
boy is able to teleport
burke decides to run after him into a
graveyard where he again teleports a
couple of times
eventually he sees the boy spitting out
a snake when it tries biting him he
falls into a coffin already placed in a
grave
the hole then covers itself up and his
only option is to pull a little string
which rings a bell
this will alert people nearby which in
this castle in the middle of the forest
at night isn't a lot of people here
father burke unfortunately fell for all
of the demon's tricks
however unlike the people we usually see
in horror films
he's supposed to be kind of the expert
he's done numerous exorcisms and has
confronted evil
spirits for years so he knows the signs
of a demonic presence and the dangers it
carries
therefore he shouldn't follow it alone
without any means to fight it
i mean burke notices the radio turning
on and off he sees a little kid alone at
night
teleporting all over the place and he's
being led into a graveyard
these seem like standard demonic
occurrences and there's no way that a
kid
accidentally walks into this building
still burke without any preparation
blindly follows the kid alone even after
seeing that he has supernatural powers
he can at least take sister irene with
him then irene wakes up in her bed and
sees that father burke is not there
she walks into the prayer room where the
demon appears behind her and chokes her
for a few
seconds but then just leaves one quick
note here and i'm just mentioning this
because i was wondering about it
throughout the whole movie
it's never really explained why the nun
always scares everybody but never kills
anyone
it's your goal to possess someone so
that she has access to our world beyond
the convent
but so far she could have possessed the
older nun in the beginning
sister wanna father burke in the coffin
and sister irene in the chapel
none of them had any weapons and they
were all outmatched by the nun
yet it lets each one of them go but
after being attacked irene walks outside
and hears the bell ringing from the
graveyard
somehow she instantly knows that it's
perk noticing he's in trouble she goes
to his grave and starts digging him
up while she's doing this father burke
starts a lighter and if you're in the
same situation
which is very unlikely don't do this
because there is very limited oxygen
down here
if he starts a flame that sucks up all
the air it's likely that i'll pass out
soon
and it takes pretty long to dig four to
six feet into the ground
so burke looks around the coffin and out
of nowhere two hands begin grabbing his
face
luckily when irene digs into the coffin
and puts a hole in it and they can see
each other
the hands disappear here we get a pretty
useful tip that will be helpful later on
when they walk off alone it's much more
likely that they get attacked by phallic
and when they're together the demon can
disappear
so in order to ensure survival and
minimize the attacks
they should stay together in a group
once burke is out of the grave he sees a
bunch of books in it which he thinks
hold the answers to their questions then
we cut to the next day as they walk past
the bloodstain where the nun jumped out
of the window
and going back in the morning is perhaps
their biggest mistake
each one of them frenchie irene and
burke saw that there is definitely an
evil presence here
they could end all of this by just
leaving and reporting back to the
vatican to get more help to tackle this
thing
burke said that it's possible for more
people to come down here
that means that after they survived the
nun's attacks they're done
they can go now i think the reason why
father burke wants to do this alone
is because he doesn't agree with how the
vatican handles these situations
and that would make sense if you're
undertaking an exorcism on a person
as they could get hurt there you want to
be a lot more careful
but that's not the case here so all
they'd have to do is report back to the
vatican
and let them handle this and as we'll
see having more people who know what
they're doing
will be a big help i mean they barely
survived the first night
while in the convent sister irene meets
sister wanna
this is the same nun that died earlier
all of the people they see here don't
actually exist
the mother reverend and all of the good
nuns aren't really there
they're merely spirits that sister irene
can see the two could figure this out
pretty easily if she wouldn't have to
walk around here
alone and since they already saw a
demonic presence in the castle they
shouldn't split up anyways
while this is happening burke is in the
first room reading the books he got from
the grave last night but they saw that
there's already something wrong with
this place so if he wants to read some
books
he can do that anywhere else he doesn't
need to do it in the haunted convent
it would be much better if he were to
follow irene as he's looking into the
pages the gate that leads inside the
abbey suddenly closes
before we find out what happens we go
back to wanna talking to irene
she explains how the person that built
this abbey back in the dark ages used it
to summon an
unspeakable evil from a gateway in the
basement
luckily he was interrupted by templars
who stormed the castle
and sealed the opening with the blood of
christ and that should have been the end
of it
unfortunately during world war ii the
abbey was bombed which opened the
gateway once again
after the story they're interrupted by a
different nun who tells her that it's
time for
awana to pray she also sees that irene
isn't a nun
just a postulant this means that she can
stay in the convent as it's reserved for
the nuns only
but awana informs them that the gates to
get out of the convent have closed for
the day
so she cannot leave by the way they're
referring to the same gate that father
perks saw closing
but there's still something she can try
when they first arrived frenchie took
them to the ice room which is before the
entrance and leads into the building
and there wasn't any lock on the door so
they could leave through that
since every knows about the ice room she
can ask if there isn't a way through
there
what's even stranger is that the nuns
themselves didn't tell her about this
they must know the abbey inside and out
as it's where they spend the entire day
so they must know about this alternative
exit so awana brings irene to another
bedroom in the castle
and locks the door then we see burke
who's still in the hall with his books
while he's reading about the valid demon
he's interrupted by the irreverent
mother suddenly speaking up
by the way he was there for a few hours
so she sat there silently the entire day
he talks to her and asks what's really
going on but the woman only says that
sister irene is already lost
it's too late father sister
irene is lost
then she dies and her dead body
disappears
we go back to sister right reading as
she wakes up from a nightmare in a room
the door to her room opens by itself and
irene walks out
she looks around the building and
eventually goes down into the basement
towards the same door from the beginning
only a few feet in front of it the door
opens by itself
and valik is slowly revealed seeing this
tree tries to run away
and the demon just lets her i i don't
know why
this attack from valik was also
avoidable because irene shouldn't be
down here to begin with
i don't know why she randomly walks down
this spooky corridor deep in the night
when she wakes up in a room there should
only be two goals
leave the abbey or find father burke and
even if she wants to investigate the
place
she already saw that there's a powerful
demon here and as frenchie explained
earlier the crosses are a sign that they
want to keep something evil away
irene should know ok this is not where i
want to go alone
with no means to fight back against the
nun she can wait until the next morning
to check this home way out with
some help if she really has to seriously
who in the hell wakes up at 2 in the
morning and instantly thinks
yes let's go into the creepy basement
all alone
i don't know we cut the book and it
seems that he's trapped in the hall he
hears a couple of voices and sees the
mother reverend
walking into a confessional and
disappearing in it then that kid who has
snakes coming out of his mouth appears
after almost making out with him he runs
up the stairs and escapes the room
okay so here it turns out that the door
was open the entire time which is a
little bit weird because i thought the
point was that he can't leave
remember that gate closed and he
couldn't escape but apparently he can
just
walk out this means that when he saw the
reverend mother warning him that irene
was
about to die after which she snapped her
own neck and vanished into thin
air he chose to stay to walk around the
room for a bit so he could have gone to
irene a long time ago
and even though the front gate is closed
he too can go through the ice room back
into the building however this doesn't
occur to father brook until later
by the way in case this is still a
little bit confusing which it kind of is
here's a little closer explanation the
room has two exits the front door which
is over here and leads into the castle
and the back door which has the stairs
going up which
goes outside the front door closed but
the back door was still open
and in front of the castle is the ice
room back with sister irene she went
into the chapel with sister awana to
pray as they believe that it will keep
the
demon away then an army of nuns enter
and they all start praying together
but we already saw that praying doesn't
really do that much against vali
they have been praying the entire time
and he was still able to kill all the
nuns
also valik is roaming around the halls
at night slowly taking out anything
that's in his way
i mean the very thing you're praying to
get rid of is
walking around your house right now
killing people
so it's clearly not that effective and
they should maybe try something else
anyway all the nuns are praying and they
get taken out one by one
so their prayers didn't work big
surprise
after they're all thrown around the room
irene is marked with a pentagram
keep in mind like i said earlier none of
these nuns actually exist they're merely
spirits that sister irene sees that
guide her through the night
then father burke finally figures out
that he can go into the ice room to go
back into the building to save irene
while he's in there he almost enters the
castle through the delivery door
but then he hears a ring he turns back
and sees a bell tied to a string
and burke decides to follow it as it
gets pulled across the floor
it leads him to the ice where another
zombie demon jumps out
by the way this is like when someone
puts a dollar on a string to trick some
[ __ ] into following the money burke
should know this and he can clearly see
the string
so he can see that somebody's trying to
lead him somewhere and there's only one
person that would possibly do this and
that's the demon
irene is locked in the castle that's
where he's trying to go
frenchy is not supposed to pick them up
until tomorrow and the mother reverend
is dead which only leaves valic
this would fit since it's been messing
with him the entire time
and the old woman told him that irene is
very quickly running out of time and
about to die
so he shouldn't get distracted this
easily as he's confronted by the demon
and it walks towards him
frenchie shows up and chops it down with
an axe and this reveals some pretty
valuable information
they can kill the demon zombies with
brute force alone
and it's really effective this is
probably the only horror movie where you
can beat up a demon
the two then go into the building and
knock on the door of the chapel
irene hears this and lets them in when
they're reunited she says that they've
all been praying this is when father
burke reveals that she's alone there are
no other nouns it's just her
she then says that they now have proof
that the castle is haunted
well technically you had that since the
first night when they saw the demon
but any kind of progress is good with me
while they're standing around the chapel
a dead body starts attacking them
father burke tries fighting it with a
cross but frenchie finishes it with a
shotgun which is a great idea
they then prepare to end this once and
for all irene explains what sister awana
told her that the crack in the basement
must be sealed
but we can't close it without the relic
the blood of christ christ
jesus christ so they must find the blood
to send valic back to hell but it's a
pretty bad idea to do this all on their
own
they know that the abbey is haunted and
they're outmatched by valic
they're barely able to fight one of the
demon zombies at a time
so they can once again get the help of
the vatican because it's extremely
unlikely that they'll win they can leave
and wait for help
they don't even know where the blood of
christ is so there's no guarantee that
they'll even make it
on top of that if they die or valik
possesses one of them
he wins and then there's no hope at all
but the group decides to go into the
catacombs trying to find the blood
with the help of irene's premonitions
she's able to get it from behind a
hidden door
burke decides to put it around sister
irene's neck as she's the only one
worthy of carrying such a holy relic
now they have the tool to kill valik as
the blood of christ will kill
any demonic spirit the three of them
then go into the basement to make their
way to the crack in the floor
while trying to find where exactly
valik's gateway is
burke decides to split from the group
and go down some random hallway
even though he already saw that staying
together is much smarter than being
alone
frenchy eventually also goes away on his
own once they're all alone without
any idea where the others are irene goes
into an open door which she believes
leads to valid's gateway
then frenchie hears irene screaming he
goes into the same door and sees her
leaning on the floor
when he tries talking to her she appears
possessed and starts attacking him
while she's threatening him frenchie
takes some blood of the relic
puts it in his hand and smears it on her
face this hurts the demon so much that
it escapes her body
but while irene is free from the none
frenchie still gets choked by her
here it should be pretty easy for
frenchie to escape and stop valik from
attacking him
we see that his arms are free so what he
can do is slap
valik and because he still has some
blood from the relic on it since he used
his hand to wipe it on irene
he could get rid of valik we saw earlier
that it doesn't take
that much blood to get rid of the demon
the templars only used a couple of drops
of the blood so what's left on his hand
should be enough for now
anyway while frenchie is getting
attacked the demon throws irene into the
room with his gateway
then it lets go a frenchie and pursues
her as it slowly approaches
it begins drowning her in the water
having to think fast irene comes up with
a way to trick valek
she puts the blonde other relic in her
mouth and pretends to be dead
when valic lifts her up why does he lift
her up that's
whatever when valic lifts her up she
spits all of the blood in her face
this hurts the demon so much that it
goes back into the crack
and it looks like they got rid of it
once and for all the next day they all
prepare to leave but when frenchie takes
them back to the village with his horse
we see an upside down cross appearing on
his neck
in a quick epilogue we see the warrants
from the conjuring one
they talk about the french farmer that
was possessed and began
speaking latin backwards it turns out
that was frenchy what happened was that
when he was getting choked by valik
it possessed them and the demon
practically won
this could have been avoidable if he
slapped valik with the blood or if they
never went into the basement to begin
with
it was a pretty risky move since they
weren't properly prepared
and the vatican even said that they
would help if father burke would have
told them what happened
there wasn't any time pressure either so
they could wait outside
wait for a week and go in there with the
proper help so that's how you can beat
2018's the nun let me know what you guys
think of the movie while not flawless
i actually think it's quite entertaining
as always i hope you liked it
and that i get to see you guys in the
next video
bye guys
you